./" Manpage for your_function
.TH WORDIF 1 "19 January 2026" "0.0"
.
.
.
.SH NAME
wordif \(en compares plain-text-files word-by-word, and stores color-marked results in HTML-format.
.
.
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
wordif    [\fIoptions\fP]  \fIfile1\fP  \fIfile2\fP
.br
wordif  -d[\fIoptions\fP]  \fIdirectory1\fP  \fIdirectory2\fP
.
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
wordif is a wrapper script around the diff(1) utility,
that compares two plain-text-files word-by-word in very much the same way as wdiff(1).
The resulting HTML 'difference-file(s)' is/are either:
.IP -
stored as a disk file (default), or
.IP -
send to stdout (with option -o), or
.IP -
converted to PDF-format and stored to disk (with option -p)
.LP
A difference-file is a unification of the two input text-files, preserving original text sequence.
Text present in both files is black. (Groups of) words locally missing in one of the two files
are color-tagged as follows:
.IP -
deleted text \(en i.e.: present in file1, and not present (there) in file2 \(en is bolt red (default),
or of any desired color (per option -c);
.IP -
inserted text \(en i.e.: present in file2 and not present (there) in file1 \(en is bolt green (default),
or of any desired color (per option -C);
.LP
With option -d, wordif acts on two directories instead of two text-files,
It then compares each text-file in directory2 to its equivalent in directory1.
To correctly associate each pair of files shared by both directories,
their file names must start with same unique number, followed by an underscore.
.LP
The resulting difference-files are collected in a directory named diff/,
which is either newly created \(en on the same level as both given directories \(en or re-used,
if already present there.
.LP
The name of the difference-file is structured as: \fCDATE_TIME’_diff_’NUMBER'.'EXT\fP,
with
.IP DATE_TIME
timestamp generated by the system's response to the command: \fCdate +"%Y%m%d_%H%M"\fP
.IP NUMBER
the unique number per related input file pair (in case of option -d) or an empty string (otherwise)
.IP EXT
the appropriate file-extension: 'html' or 'pdf'
.LP
.
.
.
.SH OPTIONS
wordif takes the following options:
.IP "\fB-h\fP"
Help, showing usage and options listing
.IP "\fB-c \fIRGBHEX\fP"
Specify 'deleted-text' color by 6-digit hexadecimal rgb-value (default: ff0000 [red])
.IP "\fB-C \fIRGBHEX\fP"
Specify 'inserted-text' color by 6-digit hexadecimal rgb-value (default: 00ff00 [green])
.IP "\fB-d\fP"
Specify two directories as arguments instead of two text-files.
Compare each file in directory2 to the equally unique-numbered file in directory1
.IP "\fB-f\fP \fIFONT\fP"
Set general character font family as a replacement for `Courier New'.
Allowed values for \fIFONT\fP are:
.RS
.IP "\fBH\fP" 
Helvetica
.IP "\fBh\fP"
Helvetica Narrow
.IP "\fBc\fP"
Courier
.IP "\fBn\fP"
New Century Schoolbook
.IP "\fBp\fP"
Palatino
.IP "\fBT\fP"
Times New Roman
.IP "\fBt\fP"
Times
.RE
.IP "\fB-o\fP"
Send HTML-text to stdout rather than to file
.IP "\fB-p\fP"
Output as PDF- instead of HTML-files; this option overrides option -o
.IP "\fB-z\fP \fISIZE\fP"
Set general character size as a replacement for 12 pts.
Also accepts values with decimal point. 
.
.
.
.SH COMPATIBILITY
The program 'wkhtmltopdf(1)' must be installed on the system if output to PDF per option -p is desired.
.
.
.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Rob Toscani (rob_toscani@yahoo.com)
.
.
.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report any bugs to the author by e-mail or via https://github.com/jazzfan2/wordif/issues
